The first R in pirate metrics stands for retention.
Retention ask the question,
do users come back?
Retention KPIs focus on a number of users to return and continue using your product.
Are most users returning and renewing their subscriptions or making multiple purchases?
Or are you seeing a large amount of churn?
Some example retention KPIs might be the number of
customers who renew their subscriptions or who come back and make multiple purchases.
Another retention KPI is the average length of time a user remains a customer.
For example, some products might get a lot of customers right away.
But if those customers drop off and stop using the product after a week,
the average customer life span will be very short.
Watching and monitoring user retention KPIs,
will help you know if your time should be focused on
building features to ensure your product is providing real value to customers.
If your KPIs in this category aren't performing well as a product manager,
you'll know you need to do more work to help
customers want to continue using or purchasing from you,
probably by providing features that meet your customer's needs.
Retention is the third step in the pirate metrics framework.
If you're acquiring lots of potential users and converting them into active users,
your products still won't be successful.
If you don't retain these active users and keep them using your product,
it is often expensive to find new customers
and there are limited number of potential customers.
Successful products retain users for as long as possible.
As we learned in the first section of this lesson,
at the end of the day,
businesses need to make money.
Thus, the pirate metrics include revenue as one of its steps.
Defining revenue is simple.
Revenue is the amount a product makes.
Revenue tells us how much money a business is generating.
Profit, which is closely related,
is the revenue generated minus the costs associated with marketing,
creating, and maintaining the product.
When thinking about the user journey,
there are two more KPIs that will be important to keep in mind.
First, the cost to acquire a new customer, or CAC.
This is how much you spend in marketing and creating websites or
demos for potential users who eventually become paying customers.
The lower this cost is,
the higher the profit calculation at the end of the day.
By working to lower these costs,
you can directly impact the bottom line.
Another revenue KPI, is the customer lifetime value or LTV.
This is the amount of revenue and average customer generates.
The higher the lifetime value of an average customer,
the greater the revenue that is generated with
each new customer acquired, activated, and retained.
By comparing CAC to LTV,
we can see whether we're spending more to gain
customers than those customers are worth thus.
If LTV is less than CAC,
our product is not profitable,
especially since CAC doesn't take into account the general costs of running a company.
Since CAC and LTV are so important,
we'll discuss exactly how to calculate them next.